That, however, is different than the strategy that we have pursued against al Qaeda.&nbsp; Al Qaeda is a terrorist organization that has aspirations that extend beyond just the border between Afghanistan and Pakistan.&nbsp; Al Qaeda and their affiliates around the globe have sought to carry out terror attacks against Americans and American interests all around the globe.&nbsp; And that explains the difference in classification.

And that’s what we did with al Qaeda. That doesn’t mean, by the way, that al Qaeda no longer possess the capabilities of potentially striking the West. Al Qaeda in the Peninsula that operates primarily in Yemen we know has consistently tried to target the West. And we are consistently working to disrupt those acts. But despite the fact that they have not gotten as much attention as ISIL, they still pose a danger, as well.

Since the beginning of this year, the U.S. and Iraqi military partnership has resulted in the death or arrest of more than 30 members of the top leadership of al-Qai'da in Iraq.&nbsp; That includes the killing of al-Qai'da's two top leaders this Spring

Al Qaeda in East Africa has operated in that part of the world for well over a decade, and many individuals who are currently within al-Shabaab also are part of al Qaeda in East Africa. &nbsp;So there is some crossover between those two organizations.

I would simply say that the President has rightly increased our tempo and put pressure on the al Qaeda network.&nbsp; We see that al Qaeda has nothing to spread but hate, and that&rsquo;s why the administration will continue to keep up the pressure to destroy the al Qaeda network.

And that's not going to advance our interests. That's not going to make us safer. It would only make it harder for us to effectively engage and coordinate and cooperate with countries around the world, including Saudi Arabia, who has been helpful in our effort to degrade and ultimately destroy ISIL, to go after al Qaida elements in Yemen, and to counter Iran’s malign activities throughout the Middle East.
